---
date: 2023-09-01
---

# 2023年11月读书

## The Craft of Research

1. they have learned not only how to find information, but how to evaluate it, then how to report it clearly and accurately.(ofen, they challenge misinformation.) more than ever, those skills are essential for success in any profession.

2. we must be candid, though: doing research carefully and reporting it clearly are hard work, consisting of many tasks, often competing for your attention at the same time. and no matter how carefully you plan, research follows a crooked path, taking unexpected turns, sometimes up blind alleys, even looping back on itself. as complex as that process is, we will work though it step-by-step so that you can see how its parts work together.when you can manage its parts,you can manage the often intimidating wholee and look forward to doing more research  with greater confidence.

3. yet mistaken ideas, even dangerous ones, flourish because too many people accept too many opinions based on too little evidence.

4. if you're preparing to do a research project not because you want to but because it's been assigned, you might think that it is just make-work and treat it as an empty exercise. we hope you won't. done well, your project prepares you to join the oldest and most esteemed of human conversations, one conducted for millennia among philosophers, engineers, biologiists, social scientists, theologians, not to mention CEOs, lawyers, investment managers——the list is endless.


5. right now, if you are a beginner, you may feel that the conversation is one-sided, that you have to listen more than you can speak because you have little to contribute. if you are a student, you may feel that you have only one reader: you teacher. all that may be true, for the moment. but at some point, you will join a conversation that, at its best, can help you and your community free us from ignorance, prejudice, and then half-baked ideas that so many charlatans try to impose on us. it is no exaggeration to say that, maybe not today or tomorrow but one day, the research you do and the arguments you make using it can improve if not the whole world, then at least you corner of it.

6. we write not just to share our work, but to improve it before we do.

7. expreienced researchers fist write just to remember what they've read. when you don't take notes on what you read, you're likely to forget or, worse, misremember it.

8. writing is to see larger patterns in what you read. for example: *I want to use these claims from Wong,but her arguments is undercut by Smith's data. when I put them side by side, I see that Smith ignores this last part of Wong's argument.Aha! if I introduce it with this part from Brunelli, I can focus on Wong more clearly*. that's why careful researchers never put off writing until they've gathered all the data they need: they write from the strat of their projects to help them assemble their information in new ways.

9. writing is to get your thoughts out of your head and onto paper, where you'll see what you really can think.

10. in short, we write to remember more accurately, understander better, and evaluate what we think more objectively.(and as you will discover, the more you write, the better you read.) 